YNU-416: prepare migration guide for v0.5.0 release (#430)
erc7824/nitrolite: erc7824-docs/docs/guides/migration-guide.md

If you are coming from an earlier version of Nitrolite, you will need to account for the following breaking changes.

## 0.5.x Breaking changes

> The 0.5.x release includes fundamental protocol changes affecting session keys, channel operations, state signatures, and channel resize rules.

Reviewer: Highlight the main aim of the release is to improve security and provide better experience for developers and users by ability to limit allowances for specific applications

If you are coming from an earlier version of Nitrolite, you will need to account for the following breaking changes.

## 0.5.x Breaking changes

The 0.5.x release includes fundamental protocol changes affecting session keys, channel operations, state signatures, and channel resize rules. The main objective of these changes is to enhance security, and provide better experience for developers and users by ability to limit allowances for specific applications.

**Not ready to migrate?** Unfortunately, at this time Yellow Network does not provide ClearNodes running the previous version of the protocol, so you will need to migrate to the latest version to continue using the Network.

### Protocol Changes

These protocol-level changes affect all implementations and integrations with the Yellow Network.

> #### Session Keys: Applications, Allowances, and Expiration

Reviewer 2: We should also specify that with the update, all session keys will be deleted and recreated with a new authentication, thus enforcing the expiration.
@philanton @dimast-x , WDYT?

- **Allowances field**: Defines spending limits for application-scoped session keys. These limits are tracked cumulatively across all operations and are enforced by the protocol.

- **Expires_at field**: Uses a bigint timestamp (seconds since epoch). Once expired, session keys are permanently frozen and cannot be reactivated. This is particularly critical for root access keys (application set to "clearnode") - if they expire, you lose the ability to perform channel operations.

#### Channel Creation: Separate Create and Fund Steps

Clearnode no longer supports creating channels with an initial deposit. All channels must be created with zero balance and funded separately through a resize operation. This two-step process ensures cleaner state management and prevents edge cases in channel initialization.

#### State Signatures: Wallet vs Session Key Signing

A fundamental change in how channel states are signed:

- **Channels created before v0.5.0**: The participant address is the session key, and all states must be signed by that session key.

- **Channels created after v0.5.0**: The participant address is the wallet address, and all states must be signed by the wallet.

> This change improves security and aligns with standard practices, but requires careful handling during the transition period.

Reviewer 2: Let's highlight more that this only affects the on-chain.

```suggestion
A fundamental change in how on-chain channel states are signed:

- **Channels created before v0.5.0**: The on-chain participant address is set to a session key, and all states must be signed by that session key.

- **Channels created after v0.5.0**: The on-chain participant address is set to a wallet address, and all states must be signed by the wallet.

This change improves security and aligns with standard practices, but requires careful handling during the transition period.

Please note that session keys logic is still related in the same way to the off-chain operations (Clearnode and application sessions).
```

Reviewer 2: Or does it sound more confusing with the "on-chain" phrase?

Author: Yeah, when I read "on-chain channel", it sounds to me that there are somewhere off-chain channels)

#### Resize Operations: Strict Channel Balance Rules

The protocol now enforces strict rules about channel balances and their impact on other operations:

- **Blocked operations**: Users with any channel containing non-zero amounts cannot perform transfers, submit app states with deposit intent, or create app sessions with non-zero allocations.

- **Resizing state**: After a resize request, channels enter a "resizing" state with locked funds until the on-chain transaction is confirmed. If a channel remains stuck in this state for an extended period, the recommended action is to close the channel and create a new one.

- **Allocate amount semantics**: The resize operation uses `allocate_amount` where negative values withdraw from the channel to unified balance, and positive values deposit to the channel.

> - **Legacy channel migration**: Users with existing channels containing non-zero amounts must either resize them to zero or close them to enable full protocol functionality. The recommended approach is to close old channels and create new ones, because it may be simpler.

Reviewer 2: Let's specify exactly what they should do:

```suggestion
- **Legacy channel migration**: Users with existing channels containing non-zero amounts must either resize them to zero (by providing "resize_amount" as 0 and "allocate_amount" as your **negative** on-chain balance) or close them to enable full protocol functionality. If you are unsure how to adjust resize parameters, the safe option is to close the old on-chain channel entirely, and open a new one.
```

  };
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Important considerations:**
- Root access keys (application: "clearnode") cannot perform channel operations after expiration
- Plan expiration times based on your operational needs
- Application-scoped keys track cumulative spending against allowances

#### Channel Creation: Zero Initial Deposit Requirement

Channels must now be created with zero initial deposit and funded separately via the `resizeChannel` method:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="before" label="Before">

  ```typescript
  const { channelId } = await client.createChannel({
    chain_id: 1,
    token: tokenAddress,
    amount: BigInt(1000000), // Initial deposit
    session_key: '0x...' // Optional
  });
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="after" label="After">

  ```typescript
  // Step 1: Create channel with zero deposit
  const { channelId } = await client.createChannel({
    chain_id: 1,
    token: tokenAddress,
    // amount and session_key parameters removed
  });
  
  // Step 2: Fund the channel separately
  await client.resizeChannel({
    channel_id: channelId,
    amount: BigInt(1000000),
  });
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Resize Operations with Channel Balance Rules

> Implementing the new resize semantics with `resize_amount` and `allocate_amount`:

Reviewer 2: Here we should add that the resize should be done with `resize_amount = -allocate_amount` not to put channels into misconfigured state and so that Clearnode does not reject ops.

// Revoke a specific session key
await client.revokeSessionKey({
  session_key: '0x...'
});

// Session key data structure
interface RPCSessionKey {
  id: string;
  sessionKey: Address;
  application: string;
  allowances: RPCAllowanceUsage[]; // Includes usage tracking
  scope: string;
  expiresAt: bigint;
  createdAt: bigint;
}
```

#### EIP-712 Signatures: String-based Amounts

EIP-712 signature types now use string values for amounts instead of numeric types to support better precision with decimal values.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="before" label="Before">

  ```typescript
  const types = {
    Allowance: [
      { name: 'asset', type: 'string' },
      { name: 'amount', type: 'uint256' } // Numeric type
    ]
  };
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="after" label="After">

  ```typescript
  const types = {
    Allowance: [
      { name: 'asset', type: 'string' },
      { name: 'amount', type: 'string' } // String type for float amounts
    ]
  };
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### ClearNode API

You should read this section only if you are using the ClearNode API directly.

#### Authentication Request with Enhanced Session Keys

> The `auth_request` method now uses the enhanced session key parameters:

Author: Do you suggest to show only diff in parameters setting and not mention "clearnode" application?

  ```json
  {
    "req": [1, "auth_request", {
      "address": "0x1234567890abcdef...",
      "session_key": "0x9876543210fedcba...",
      "application": "clearnode",
      "allowances": [],
      "scope": "app.create",
      "expires_at": 1750659456789
    }, 1619123456789],
    "sig": ["0x..."]
  }
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### API: Zero Deposit Channel Creation

The `create_channel` method no longer accepts initial deposit parameters:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="before" label="Before">

  ```json
  {
    "req": [1, "create_channel", {
      "chain_id": 137,
      "token": "0xeeee567890abcdef...",
      "amount": "100000000",
      "session_key": "0x1234567890abcdef..."
    }, 1619123456789],
    "sig": ["0x9876fedcba..."]
  }
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="after" label="After">

  ```json
  {
    "req": [1, "create_channel", {
      "chain_id": 137,
      "token": "0xeeee567890abcdef..."
      // amount and session_key parameters removed
    }, 1619123456789],
    "sig": ["0x9876fedcba..."]
  }
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### API: Session Key Management Methods

New methods for session key operations have been added.

> **Get Session Keys Request:**

Reviewer 2: This can be modified to a L5 heading as well as "Revoke Session Key Request", thus it will be easier to specify their requests and responses. We should add the response to "Revoke Session Key Request"

    "session_keys": [{
      "id": "sk_123",
      "session_key": "0x9876543210fedcba...",
      "application": "My Trading App",
      "allowances": [
        { "asset": "usdc", "amount": "1000.0", "used": "250.0" }
      ],
      "scope": "app.create",
      "expires_at": 1719123456789,
      "created_at": 1619123456789
    }]
  }, 1619123456789],
  "sig": ["0x..."]
}
```

**Revoke Session Key Request:**
```json
{
  "req": [1, "revoke_session_key", {
    "session_key": "0x1234567890abcdef..."
  }, 1619123456789],
  "sig": ["0x..."]
}
```

#### API: Operation Restrictions with Non-Zero Channel Balances

The following operations will return errors if the user has any channel with non-zero amount:

- **Transfer**: Returns error code indicating blocked due to non-zero channel balance
- **Submit App State** (with deposit intent): Rejected if attempting to deposit
- **Create App Session** (with allocations): Cannot create funded app sessions

Error response example:
```json
{
  "res": [1, "error", {
    "error": "operation denied: non-zero allocation in 1 channel(s) detected owned by wallet 0x1234567890abcdef..."
  }, 1619123456789],
  "sig": ["0x..."]
}
```

> ### Migration Summary

Reviewer 2: I think we should change changes headings to the ones below, i.e. in Clearnode API the "#### Authentication Request with Enhanced Session Keys" to "#### Update Authentication Request Parameters". This way the whole guide reads like a list of steps right away, and we can remove the Migration summary.
